Create AI optimization group (#920)
mintlify/docs: ai/llmstxt.mdx

---
title: "llms.txt"

> description: "Make your content easier for LLMs to understand"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Make your content easier for LLMs to read and index"
```

icon: "file-code"
---

import { PreviewButton } from "/snippets/previewbutton.jsx"

The [llms.txt file](https://llmstxt.org) is an industry standard that helps LLMs index content more efficiently, similar to how a sitemap helps search engines.

> Every documentation site automatically hosts an `llms.txt` file at the root that lists all available pages in your documentation. AI tools can use this file to understand your documentation structure and find relevant content to user prompts.

Reviewer: I know we don't wanna say Mintlify over and over but should this explicitly "Mintlify automatically hosts an llms.txt file for all customers"

> View your `llms.txt` by appending `/llms.txt` to your site's URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
View your `llms.txt` by appending `/llms.txt` to your documentation site's URL.
```

<PreviewButton href="https://mintlify.com/docs/llms.txt">Open the llms.txt for this site</PreviewButton>

Your site's `llms.txt` is always up to date and requires zero maintenance.

## llms.txt structure

An `llms.txt` file is a plain Markdown file that contains:

- **Site title** as an H1 heading. This is the only required section of an `llms.txt`.

> - **Site summary** typically in a blockquote.

Reviewer: so we don't actually support a summary today, and having this might make people wonder how to edit their summary, so possibly remove?

Author: Good catch. Going to remove. We should probably add it as a feature soon since it is a best practice afaik

- **Structured content sections** with descriptive links to key pages.

```mdx Example llms.txt
# Example product docs

> Learn how to get started, use the API, and explore tutorials.  

## Guides  
- [Getting started](https://example.com/docs/start): Intro guide  
- [Install](https://example.com/docs/install): Setup steps  

## Reference  
- [API](https://example.com/docs/api): Endpoint list and usage
```

This structured approach allows LLMs to quickly process your documentation hierarchy and locate relevant content for user queries, improving the accuracy and speed of AI-assisted documentation searches.

## llms-full.txt

> The `llms-full.txt` file combines your entire documentation site into a single file as context for AI tools. Users can paste a single URL as context for AI tools for more relevant and accurate responses.

Reviewer: maybe a quick line about llms-full.txt is also indexed by LLM traffic
